= actionmailer_extensions

These extensions wrap around the "deliver!" method on ActionMailer::Base to provide:
* save all outgoing emails to disk, and
* a list of recipient email addresses that are safe to receive mail. All other mail is not sent.

== Saving email to disk

Sending email with markup from a web app is a pain in the ass because HTML markup renders differently in every
email client. (If you don't believe me, check out this {matrix of CSS support across the different email clients}[http://www.campaignmonitor.com/css/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=Email%20marketing%20software&utm_content=299578507&utm_campaign=September+News+-+Version+A+_+khihur&utm_term=AllnewCSSguidecovering24emailclients].

The only foolproof way to ensure that your content is rendering properly is to visually inspect the emails yourself. To get going, configure ActionMailer like so:

  require 'actionmailer_extensions'
  ActionMailer::Base.save_emails_to_disk  = true          # Defaults to false
  ActionMailer::Base.email_output_dir     = "some/path"   # Defaults to "/tmp/actionmailer_output_emails"
  
Then send some emails with ActionMailer, and inspect the files in the output path that you specified. The emails are saved with a .eml extension which should open in your favourite email client, for easy visual inspection.
  

== Safe recipients list

Ever found that you want to limit the list of people that can receive email from a Rails app? This is a particularly handy feature during development, when you don't want your (unfinished) application to send out real mail to people beyond the dev team.

Configure ActionMailer like so:

  require 'actionmailer_extensions'
  ActionMailer::Base.safe_recipients = ["pete@example.com", "dave@foo.com"]

Pete and Dave are the *only* recipients that ActionMailer will send to. All other mail will be quietly dropped. (And logged to disk, if save_emails_to_disk is enabled.)

In production mode, make sure that the recipients list contains the :any symbol. 

  ActionMailer::Base.safe_recipients = [:any]

This is enabled by default. An empty or nil recipients list means no mail will be sent out to anyone.

== Install

  gem source --add http://gemcutter.org
  gem install actionmailer_extensions


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Peter MacRobert. See LICENSE for details.
